---
layout: post
title:  "Cunning"
date:   2023-08-16 17:39:03 +0530
categories: short story
---
Weeks have passed since she started working there. She sees him sitting inconspicuously, far enough that someone else wouldn't notice, but, she was given a task. She isn't sure if he has caught on, but she has always been a step ahead of everyone. "You gotta be, you know?" she says to herself. So during a busy afternoon, she goes to the back, carrying a brown paper bag.

He has been monitoring her for weeks; the client reached out to him months ago and told him when she'll start working there. He regularly changed the car he has been using, parking in different spots, keeping an eye on the neighborhood. The client had given the date of "the accident," and he needed to understand all possible patterns through the day to come up with a simple plan. He sees her enter the kitchen. He knows there's an exit from back there, but he isn't worried; his wife is keeping an eye out for their target, if she steps out. "Hey Anna, the target has gone to the kitchen. Keep an eye out for her.", he speaks into the phone.

It has been longer than she would usually take. "Hey Anna, did she step out?" - "Negative," he gets a quick reply.

He's feeling a little restless waiting for her to return. He decides to step out and stretch his leg. As soon as he steps out of the car, an unexpected sensation courses through him—a searing prick on the nape of his neck. He looks back, the surroundings blur into a dizzying whirl as he falters... his gaze locking onto the figure of the killer. In that fateful moment, a haunting realization dawns in his eyes before his strength gives way. With one last, lingering look, he collapses, life slipping away.

She retrieves her phone as she leans in to assess his pulse, confirming the inevitable. She speaks into the device, her voice unwavering: "Hey Anna, it's done."


Check Original Post on [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/lucidillusions.in/post/3k53dekmimd2b)
