---
layout: post
title:  "Depths"
date:   2023-08-18 17:39:03 +0530
categories: short story
---
Growing up a latch-key kid, he had to spend a lot of time on his own. While he liked playing video games, he could never spend too much time on them. What he really loved was reading, immersing himself in the stories, living vicariously through the characters, far away in their worlds. There were adventures and companionship, and as he lost track of time and reality, it was his own TARDIS.

One day, while walking home, he saw a book lying on a bench. He thought maybe someone had forgotten it there. He picked up the book and read the title "You & I". There was no cover design, or a name of the author. He was intrigued further. He decided to sit down and read it, while waiting for the owner to return and collect the book. He felt that this way no one would steal it, plus he would get to read a book too.

As he read a few pages, he realised the book was quite different from any other he had ever read. He quickly flipped through the book and he was intrigued that there was no beginning, no chapters, and quite a few empty pages. He took a deep breath and started reading properly... The book seemed to have no plots, no dialogues, no descriptions. It was a book that had only words, someone's hallucinating thought process just added there...

The words though flowed endlessly, without pause or punctuation. Strings of words that made no sense, but it somehow hypnotised him. Words that drew him in deeper and deeper, until he couldn't stop reading. Words that surrounded him, enveloped him, drowned him.

He realised too late that he was trapped in the book, and that there was no way out. He realised too late that he was suffocating in the words, and that there was no air. He realised too late that he had reached a depth that wasn't possible within a book, as his thoughts turned into words and filled empty pages.
