---
layout: post
title:  "E-book and the Next set of stories"
date:   2024-08-03 18:39:03 +0530
categories: deathclock
---

These short stories, started a year back in August of 2023, when I first asked Bluesky users to share a prompt. While my original idea was to write 100-200 word stories some of the stories are way longer. I don't think I ever managed to write something that short. 

Last month I decided to compile these stories into an E-book and share with friends, mutuals and followers across social media. As you know I mostly share the stories as screengrab with alt-text on bsky, apart from sharing them on this site - I felt it might be nicer to have a format that people can read on their e-reader as well. 

So if you'd like to download the book. [Check out this Ko-fi link](https://ko-fi.com/s/d33c50d04d). 

p.s. the e-book contains three extra stories that are not available on the website.

<br>
<br>

So what's next? 

If you've been on bluesky for a while, you know about the labellers. While the original design behind this is to create a 3rd party moderation layer, certain labellers are creating some fun projects with these. One of the fun ones is called [The Cave of Trophonius](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:fqfzpua2rp5io5nmxcixvdvm) which has labelled every active account with how the user will meet their demise. 

So I've decided to start using these as prompt to write stories. I will start sharing the stories on this site as well in the near future, but currently you can check the stories on bluesky.

<br>

<blockquote class="bluesky-embed" data-bluesky-uri="at://did:plc:36h6ttx2g23zqr4accilbvo7/app.bsky.feed.post/3kyr7qa7dcs2w" data-bluesky-cid="bafyreiatm32bhvl7sqgnyabm3nwrt6febxx6zdjv2f4lag26gmhk25a264"><p lang="en">I&#x27;m going to start using @oracle.posters.rip label to write a few stories for mutuals. 

🙃🙃🙃</p>&mdash; The 🟦 Doctor (<a href="https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:36h6ttx2g23zqr4accilbvo7?ref_src=embed">@lucidillusions.in</a>) <a href="https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:36h6ttx2g23zqr4accilbvo7/post/3kyr7qa7dcs2w?ref_src=embed">Aug 3, 2024 at 2:16 AM</a></blockquote><script async src="https://embed.bsky.app/static/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
