Memories are a funny thing, you never know what can trigger an old one for you. Sometimes it is sound, sometimes it is smell, sometimes it is taste. I've been thinking about this for a while now. For me, someone who has always enjoyed eating food, trying different (non-vegetarian) options, I've never been someone growing up who made a lot of anchor points related to food. I grew watching Bollywood, where someone would mention how they missed the food they grew up eating, or how something reminded them of their mother's cooking. Me, when I stepped out of home for my education, not once did I feel I missed my mother's cooking. You might think, it was because she wasn't a great cook, but you'd be wrong. She is a great cook, and people remember her cooking a lot. Not me, during college vacations I would get back home, and while my mum would be excited to cook for me, so I could eat food that I've missed, I could never put a memory anchor. I also think this is one of the reason why I can't connect with so many Indian travelling to another city, state, or country because they keep looking for the same food constantly, and cannot enjoy other cuisines. 

But getting back to me, I have been thinking about food related memory anchors, and honestly I might not be able to write a detailed description of how something tasted but there are foods that I eat and it reminds me of food I ate as a kid. I learnt this when I bought a plate of samosas outside a railway station. It tasted exactly like the samosas we would get in our school canteen. I have often thought about why I didn't like having happy memories, but it might have been limited to happy and sad memories strongly related to my parents. I might not even remember what they did, but I can feel the uncomfortable feeling that they brought out. I still find it difficult to tell them what and how they did me wrong, because all they will tell me to do is forget about such things from childhood, now that I'm an adult all that from the past should be in the past.

A part of me has thought about this a lot, a part of me that tries to make me forget things, a safety mechanism? but sometimes I remember - the 
